Add example of prometheus exemplars being scraped from a flask app (#245)
GoogleCloudPlatform/opentelemetry-operations-python: docs/examples/prometheus_exemplars/README.rst

======================================================
Prometheus Metric Exemplars with OpenTelemetry Tracing
======================================================

The full code for this example is available `on Github
<https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/opentelemetry-operations-python/tree/main/docs/examples/prometheus_exemplars>`_.

This end-to-end example shows how to instrument a Flask app with with `Prometheus
<https://prometheus.io/>`_ metrics linked to OpenTelemetry traces using exemplars. The example

> manually adds exemplars to a Prometheus Histogram which link the metric in Cloud Monitoring to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
manually adds exemplars to a Prometheus Histogram which link the metric in Google Cloud managed service for Prometheus to
```

Spans in Cloud Trace.

> OpenTelemetry Python is configured to send traces to the `OpenTelemetry Collector

Reviewer: Consider adding a diagram.

Author: Done

<https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/>`_ and the Collector scrapes the python server's
Prometheus endpoint. The Collector is configured to send metrics to `Google Cloud Managed
Service for Prometheus <https://cloud.google.com/stackdriver/docs/managed-prometheus>`_ and
traces to `Google Cloud Trace <https://cloud.google.com/trace/docs/overview>`_.

To run this example you first need to:
    * Create a Google Cloud project. You can `create one here <https://console.cloud.google.com/projectcreate>`_.
    * Enable Cloud Trace API (listed in the Cloud Console as Stackdriver Trace API) in the project `here <https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library?q=cloud%20trace&filter=visibility:public>`_. If the page says "API Enabled" then you're done! No need to do anything.

>     * Enable Default Application Credentials by creating setting `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS <https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/getting-started>`_ or by `installing gcloud sdk <https://cloud.google.com/sdk/install>`_ and calling ``gcloud auth application-default login``.

Reviewer: It's "Application Default Credentials." I'd suggest giving them one way to do it which covers the 80% case (probably gcloud auth application-default login) and pointing them to the GCP docs for alternatives.

Reviewer: No problem

.. code-block:: sh

    docker-compose up --build --abort-on-container-exit

This starts three containers:

#. The Flask server written in ``server.py``. It receives requests and simulates some work by
   waiting for a random amount of time.
#. The OpenTelemetry Collector which receives traces from the Flask server by OTLP and scrapes
   Prometheus metrics from the Flask server's ``/metrics`` endpoint.
#. A load generator that sends constant requests to the Flask server.

Checking Output
---------------

While running the example, you can go to `Cloud Monitoring Metrics Explorer page
<https://console.cloud.google.com/monitoring/metrics-explorer>`_ to see the results. Click on
the "Metric" dropdown, type ``my_prom_hist``, and select the metric from under "Prometheus
Target". The full metric name is ``prometheus.googleapis.com/my_prom_hist_seconds/histogram``.

.. image:: select_metric.png
  :alt: Select the metric

After selecting the metric, you should see something like the image below, with a heatmap
showing the distribution of request durations in the Python server.

.. image:: heatmap.png
  :alt: Metrics explorer heatmap

> The circles on the heatmap are called "exemplars", which link to example span that fell within

Reviewer: Nit: example spans (plural)

Author: Reworded to make it clear each circle is a single span

Author: Updated, please resolve if it looks good

======================================================
Prometheus Metric Exemplars with OpenTelemetry Tracing
======================================================

The full code for this example is available `on Github
<https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/opentelemetry-operations-python/tree/main/docs/examples/prometheus_exemplars>`_.

This end-to-end example shows how to instrument a Flask app with with `Prometheus
<https://prometheus.io/>`_ metrics linked to OpenTelemetry traces using exemplars. The example
manually adds exemplars to a Prometheus Histogram which link the metric in Cloud Monitoring to
Spans in Cloud Trace.

OpenTelemetry Python is configured to send traces to the `OpenTelemetry Collector
<https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/>`_ and the Collector scrapes the python server's

> Prometheus endpoint. The Collector is configured to send everything to Google Cloud Monitoring

Reviewer: Should we have it send metrics to GMP instead?

Author: Let me give it a try and see if it works

Author: Exemplars don't seem to be working with `googlemanagedprometheus`, I'll need to dig in or we can go ahead with this.

Author: Nvm got it working, PTAL
